# ai_art_ethics

Small survey conducted in subject "Data Acquisition and Survey Methods".
The respondents were asked 3 questions about ethics regarding AI-generated art.
More specifically, the questions were meant to determine the respondents' level of compassion toward and willingness to give credit to artists, on whose original work a generative AI-model has been trained.

Questions included: Of the revenue generated by a piece of art which was created by an AI-model, which in turn was trained on a single artist's work, how much should the artist receive?
Would the respondent boycott a piece of art, if it was generated by an AI-model, which was trained on an artist that got no compensation for it?
Does the respondent have any history of creating art themselves?

The questions are meant to help answer the following research hypotheses:

1.  Artists/authors would credit other artists/authors to more money, if the model were trained on them, than non-artists/non-authors.

2.  Artists/authors are, compared to non-artists/non-authors, more inclined to boycott art that was created by a model that trained on an artist, if the artist doesn't get any money out of it.

3.  There is no statistical connection between people who would grant artists/authors more money (question 1) and people who would boycott an AI-generated piece of art, that the trained-on artist did not make any money from, meaning that respondents, while they may agree with the ethical worries of artists regarding AI-generated art, they do not act upon those values.
